docs/index.rst, before:

*************************
Pupil Invisible LSL Relay
*************************

The Pupil Invisible LSL Relay (Relay) allows you to stream gaze and event data from your
Pupil Invisible device to the `labstreaminglayer <https://github.com/sccn/labstreaminglayer>`_ (LSL).

Install and Usage
==================
Install the Pupil Invisible Relay with pip::

   pip install pupil-invisible-lsl-relay

After you installed the relay, you can start it by executing::

   pupil_invisible_lsl_relay

The Relay takes two optional arguments:

- ``--time_sync_interval`` is used to set the interval (in seconds) at which the relay sends events
  to the Pupil Invisible device that can be used for time synchronization. The default is 60 seconds.

- ``--timeout`` is used to define the maximum time (in seconds) the relay will search the network for new
  devices before returning. The default is 10 seconds.

- ``--log_file_name`` defines the name and path of the log file. The default is ``pi_lsl_relay.log``.

.. caution::
   The Relay currently relies on `NTP`_ for time synchronization between the phone and
   the computer running the relay application. See the :ref:`timestamp_docs` section for
   details.

.. important::
   Make sure the version of your Pupil Invisible Companion App is at least v1.4.14 or higher.
   You can download the latest version of the App in the Play Store on your Pupil Invisible Companion device.


.. _NTP: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_Time_Protocol

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :glob:

   guides/index.rst
   api.rst
   history.rst


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

added documentation, coherent naming and consistent channel uuid via phone id

docs/index.rst, after:

*************************
Pupil Invisible LSL Relay
*************************

The Pupil Invisible LSL Relay (Relay) allows you to stream gaze and event data from your
Pupil Invisible device to the `labstreaminglayer <https://github.com/sccn/labstreaminglayer>`_ (LSL).

Install and Usage
==================
Install the Pupil Invisible Relay with pip::

   pip install pupil-invisible-lsl-relay

After you installed the relay, you can start it by executing::

   pupil_invisible_lsl_relay

The Relay takes five optional arguments:

- ``--time_sync_interval`` is used to set the interval (in seconds) at which the relay sends events
  to the Pupil Invisible device that can be used for time synchronization. The default is 60 seconds.

- ``--timeout`` is used to define the maximum time (in seconds) the relay will search the network for new
  devices before returning. The default is 10 seconds.

- ``--log_file_name`` defines the name and path of the log file. The default is ``pi_lsl_relay.log``.

- ``--device_address`` sets the device address explicitly. If you use this tag, the device selection via list
  is skipped. The correct format to pass the device address is ``device_ip:device_port`` the ip address and
  the port of your device can be found in the companion app under Menu -> Streaming

- ``--channel_prefix`` sets the prefix of the channel name displayed in lab recorder. The default prefix
  is 'pupil_invisible'. Each channel will also have a suffix, specifying the channel type (Gaze or Event)

.. caution::
   The Relay currently relies on `NTP`_ for time synchronization between the phone and
   the computer running the relay application. See the :ref:`timestamp_docs` section for
   details.

.. important::
   Make sure the version of your Pupil Invisible Companion App is at least v1.4.14 or higher.
   You can download the latest version of the App in the Play Store on your Pupil Invisible Companion device.


.. _NTP: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_Time_Protocol

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :glob:

   guides/index.rst
   api.rst
   history.rst


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
